- dialogue lines will be on bottom, covering up the HUD, rather than on top.
  this has two benefits:
    - i don't have to worry about how to display the HUD and dialogue
      simultaneously. otherwise i might have to
        - cut one line for display and use it for the HUD. to display the HUD
          bar i would then have to use an Hblank interrupt to cut out BG0
          display at the right scanline (since 5 lines are not aligned to 8px
          tile boundary, then reshow it before the HUD gets rendered.)
    - GBAtek notes that the first 8 scanlines are effectively invisible on
      a real GBA, since they are covered by a shadow.
- still have to figure out how i can do the pause menu, since that will
  definitely take more than six lines.
    - i could have it be in the center and hide game sprites when the menu
      is active, so that sprite slots can be used for sprite text ??
    - i could have it be a Window (how to display HUD? HBlank interrupt?)
      i think actually it will only need 6 lines. and only the current menu
      will be displayed. controls menu takes more lines though. maybe i can
      cut it out from the pause menu?
       
- BUG: spitting a projectile in water causes a crash. this iss probably because
       the projectile gets immediately destroyed afterward.





                   entity broadphase: sweep and prune
- for the X and Y axes, store a sorted edge list containing the edges of each
  collidable entity.
- for the X and Y axes, store a bitfield with each bit describing if two
  entities are colliding. refer to the upair2u function.
- (only for the X axis) store a separate contiguous array which stores
  broadphase overlap entries. each array entry contains references to both
  entities.
- when updating the edge list, if a new overlap was detected, set the
  bitfield entry to 1 and add it to the overlap list. if a overlap was
  destroyed, set the bitfield entry to 0, do a linear search of the overlap.
  list with the pertinent entities and remove that overlap, shifting the
  entries afterwards backwards to fill the slot.
- since the Y axis does not have an overlap list, simply do not do anything
  pertaining to such on that axis.
- contact detection will therefore be fast; it's just going through the X
  overlap list, and checking if the overlap exists on the Y axis bitfield. if
  it does, do narrow-phase collision detection.

              projectile broadphase: spatial partitioning
the original unyuland used sweep and prune for both regular entities and
projectiles. projectiles were also considered normal entities. but i feel
that for this gba port, that will not suffice for memory or performance, for
two reasons:
  1) it is not possible for projectiles to store as much data as an entity
     does, as projectiles only need to store position, velocity, sprite id,
     and projectile kind. this is relevant because one room in unyuland can
     have at least 80 projectiles active at once. that's a lot!
  2) sweep and prune is not very optimal for projectiles, since they move
     fast, are created and destroyed very frequently, and axis overlaps
     between projectiles can change very frequently.
thus what i propose is that projectiles be stored in a pool separate from
entities and with a separate, more lean data structure. and additionally,
that spatial partitioning will be used as the broadphase optimization for
them.

each partition cell will be 8x8 tiles in size. the grid will also have 8
columns of cells and 8 rows of cells, making the maximum room size 64 tiles
on any axis. fortunately, no rooms exceed this size. each cell stores a
pointer to the root of a singly-linked list describing which projectiles
occupy the cell. each linked list node is allocated in a pool.

entity/projectile intersection will be handled by the entity collision code.

on update:
  for each projectile:
    store old partition-grid bounds

    move projectile
    if projectile is touching a tile:
      destroy projectile

    compute new partition-grid bounds
    if grid bounds has changed:
      remove entries referencing self in the old partition cells
      add entries in new intersecting cells